# SwapCar
John Fleury, Justin Laue, Jack Rice, Elsa Velazquez- BlockChain use case


## Vision
Over the past ten years, countless ways to earn a side income have emerged, from becoming an uber driver to renting out a spare bedroom in your house through Airbnb. Despite all these platforms, there has been no way to reliably and  safely rent or lease out your personal vehicle to a responsible driver or to rent or lease a car for a cheap price.

Our vision is to move car rentals and short term leases to the blockchain. This technology could allow for any individual to place their personal vehicle onto the blockchain network as an ERC 721 token, which could then be viewed by other potential users and rented or leased for a specified period of time. This could be achieved by temporarily exchanging ownership of the token representing the vehicle through the use of smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. This could allow the vehicle owner to earn a side income and the renter an opportunity to rent or lease a vehicle of his/her choice for less than existing rental companies. 

Through the development and implementation of other technologies, we hope to be able to provide trustworthy and untamperable information on the history of the vehicle being rented or leased. We also hope to be able to have a streamlined and trustworthy method to ensure that a vehicle has not been damaged after being returned by the renter. In the future, we hope that our proposed solution will act as a system to not only rent and lease vehicles, but also purchase vehicles complete with accurate history of care and ownership. 

While the idea of car rental is nothing new in the open market, there exists limitations in the current car rental industry. Blockchain side-chains and tokenization technology have the potential to fix those limitations. In the traditional model, the consumer must go through an intermediary, rental company in order to gain access to a car. Although there is a lot of competition in this space, there still is not a reliable way for consumers to connect in a peer-to-peer network that allows them to rent their vehicles out to one another.  

## Value Added
The added value components in the model we are proposing are transparency, accessibility, and lower costs. By building distributed ledger technology smart contracts, we gain the advantage of allowing consumers to connect directly with one another, cutting out many of the pains associated with car rental models. Further, by utilizing tokenization, we introduce the benefits of micropayments on nonfungible assets.

Transparency as it relates to current rental models is based on trusting a third party that all information on a particular vehicle is provided by the owner of that vehicle. It is easier to trust rental companies that own fleets of cars and have proven track records, but there is still no guarantee that the data they have provided is correct and full. Newer rental models that connect private vehicle owners to renters have much less trust inherently. There is no way to access reliable data on the private vehicle that you are renting. This problem exists in the model of Uber as well, as you are not able to see how safe or well taken care of the vehicle you are riding in is other than a quick eye test. By recording vehicle histories and other relevant data on a permanent blockchain ledger, the vehicle's data will be transparent and accurate.  Information such as accident histories, oil changes, and  tire replacements will be visible to consumers at all times. Transparency will allow consumers to gain a greater peace of mind when renting private vehicles, which our competitors do not yet have a solution for. 

We also propose this as a solution to the major costs most rental car companies incur in storing their vehicles at large facilities. These facilities are spread out across the country with most companies having locations concentrated at airports where the majority of car rental transactions occur. The issue is cars are concentrated on lots and not typically within walking distance. Newer rental models have the opposite issue when it comes to accessibility. These models rent out personal vehicles and do not have major lot space in high traffic areas like airports. We hope our solution will create a new market in which private car owners can make their vehicle’s location available so that consumers can simply open a DApp similar to Uber and look at vehicles in their area to rent, while also allowing people to collaborate and purchase a fleet of cars that could also be listed on our network. These partnerships could then rent out space at airports, creating even more accessibility. 

The ability to directly connect with a car owner looking to rent out their car will create savings for consumers. Costs will be lowered due to the fact that there is no intermediary taking large cuts for  profits or inflating costs in a monopolized market. Rental prices will reflect supply and demand more accurately in the sense that a centralized company will not control prices. We believe that supply will rise if everyone has the option to rent out their personal vehicle, in turn dragging the price to rent a car down.  Traditional rental companies have significant expenses related to storage and unused inventory (e.g. idle vehicles). By allowing people to rent out their personal vehicle we will be able to cut down on wasteful space and utilize cars to a fuller potential. Similar to how Airbnb could help slow the building of new hotels by utilizing existing space more efficiently, our platform would help utilize a network of cars more efficiently.

## Research:

## Competition 
The direct competition to our proposed solution exists in traditional rental car companies such as Hertz, in more flexible companies such as Zipcar and car2go, and in private car rental services such as Turo. We will examine some of the pros and cons of these competitors in the rental car space that we hope to revolutionize. It is important to note that while these competitors offer flexible car rentals, they do not offer the ability to rent out your own personal vehicle. 
 
Traditional rental companies like Hertz and Budget Car Rental provide some convenience to their customers as they can be booked in advance by phone, online, or in-store at locations based at airports or in some towns. They also make it simpler by providing insurance options even if you hold an international or out of state license. While there are some advantages to these traditional companies, they are outdated and have many disadvantages. Although it is simple to organize a rental, it is generally very expensive to rent from these companies and it often requires advanced planning to book a car, as they lack the necessary inventory to allow for casual walk-ins. They are also limited by their locations and therefore do not allow for a quick pick-up and go rental. 

Newer companies such as Zipcar and car2go offer more flexible and short term rentals and are therefore much closer to our proposed business model. Zipcar offers cars at any time from any of their designated car parks and allows for rental by the minute, hour, or day. While this is more flexible than the traditional car rentals, it still has some limitations. Firstly, it is still expensive to rent their cars and members have to pay a monthly subscription fee starting at $7 per month for their basic option. Secondly, they are also limited in their convenience as the cars can only be rented from and returned to designated locations. Finally, Zipcar only has a limited number of vehicles in their fleet and as a result, there are often no cars available when they are needed. 

Car2go offers an even more flexible option, offering the ability to rent and drop off any their luxury fleet vehicles at any location selected by the customer. Like Zipcar, their cars can be rented for between $0.41 - $0.47 per minute, $15 - $19 per hour, or $89 - $129 per day. While car2go offers more flexibility with their rentals, they are still limited by their high prices, subscription fees, the number and location of vehicles and designated parking spaces in their fleet, and more recently by offering only one type of car. 

Finally, Turo is a newer car rental company which has a very similar business model to our proposed solution. Turo allows users to rent out their personal cars to any other users in their city for specified periods of time and includes insurance options when a vehicle is selected. While this is a significantly more flexible option, the cost to rent a car is very similar to a traditional car rental company (Turo) and the company only has a small number of active users so cars are often unavailable. 

## Similar Blockchain Models
There are a few examples of successful blockchain models that are very similar to the token we are proposing to use. The first one, called Cryptokitties, utilizes an ERC 721 token. The basic premise of this blockchain technology lets users trade, buy, sell, and breed digital kittens. Each kitten has their own 256-bit code of DNA that contains attributes (or cattributes), making them unique, nonfungible assets.   Much like real DNA, the nonfungible Cryptokitties contain traits, which can be passed down to the next generation of kittens.  Cryptokitties was released in October of 2017 and in December of that year, the first kitten was sold for about 247 ETH; at the time this was worth over $117,000. Millions of kittens were bred after this and smart contracts were used to buy and sell the ownership rights of each Cryptokittie as its own, independent entity. Similarly, our cars would each be independent entities, all managed by smart contracts.   

Another example of a decentralized blockchain working to tokenize assets is Maecenas. They are working on allowing better access to fine art investments without the need for intermediaries. Maecenas claims that they are ‘democratizing fine art investments’. Their system aims to provide people with ways to avoid taking out loans in order to invest in expensive art pieces. Some art can be tens of millions of dollars and usually investors or galleries will take out loans to pay for them. Instead, Maecenas hopes to allow owners to tokenize the art piece and then let other investors buy a stake in a specified percentage of the art. This way, both parties win. Someone who doesn’t want to purchase an entire art piece can buy a small amount and then gain a profit if the value of the piece increases. 

Both of these networks (albeit, Maecenas arguably has more use than Cryptokitties) prove that the desire for traditional systems be placed on a blockchain is very strong. It's only a matter of time before we see more companies releasing blockchain solutions to current problems.

## Obstacles 
The project we are proposing has many promising features that would create great value in a perfect world, however we all know the world is a forbidding and uncertain place at times. The biggest issue that is apparent immediately is governance. Driving is very common throughout the world, but it is also very dangerous and poses many risks, causing it to be one of the most highly regulated industries. The issue that we are facing more specifically is insurance. We need a way to prove that the consumer that wants to rent a car is insured. Moreover, those people renting out their vehicles might be hesitant to do so without having the driving record of the person that will ultimately be behind the wheel. A car is one of the biggest investments a person makes in his or her lifetime so being able to turn that investment into a passive income stream is extremely attractive, but people also want to mitigate the risk of losing that investment. The problem is framed in a sense of security versus privacy. On one had some people will not want to give up their driving records for fear of losing some control over that private data which could potentially be sold to insurance companies. On the other hand people will not want to lend out their vehicles to unsafe drivers, raising the risk of losing their investment (vehicle). 
This privacy issue raises concerns with gaining traction in the marketplace as well. It will be difficult to build a network of trust which will be able to scale. Awareness is going to be difficult to spread, but once people learn of the value being offered we believe that it will spread rapidly. The hardest part will be gaining a solid, initial foothold.  
Potential Solutions
We believe there is a way that we can create a whitelist with specific parameters that relate to safe driving to be sure that everyone in the network is safe and insured. The data could be encrypted so that users do not have access to link an identity to a driving record. In order to keep driving records safe and out of the hands of people who want to sell the information, not only could the data be encrypted but each record could be connected to a smart contract. These smart contracts would only give the party or parties who require the information the data and keep it secure. Blockchain solves a lot of problems with privacy because mostly everything can be controlled. We can determine which aspects require anonymity and which need to be public/private knowledge. Also, there is already work underway by R3 Consortium to create a blockchain that connects all blockchains so that consumers utilizing blockchain solutions like ours are vetted elsewhere and can maintain privacy within our blockchain.  

In order to overcome the challenge of awareness, the system will need to prove to people that it can function in a daily society. With the product, we will create a fluid user interface, as this is one of the main problems with current blockchains and tokens. Advertising would also be a main focal point of getting awareness out there. With the advertisement campaign, focusing on how the product is better than traditional systems such as Hertz, Zipcar, and car2go, rather than explaining all of the complex jargon related to the blockchain technology would help customers understand it. There are likely more issues that would arise through a project/company like this but from what we can tell, these solutions can fix the current, most pressing matters.  

## Conclusion
Renting a car today is as easy as it has ever been. There are many companies like Zipcar and car2go beginning to replace the original leaders in the space (Hertz, Enterprise, National, Alamo, etc.). It's also getting cheaper to rent a car as the ease of use increases. Our hope is that blockchain technology would eliminate most or all of the problems related to getting a rental. By tokenizing each car and/or title of the car and using smart contracts that enable micropayments, this expands the pool of who can enter the space. Not only can individuals let others use their cars around town, but companies such as Zipcar can likely stick around as a large part of the blockchain. They would just own more tokens on the chain than people renting their private cars. Not only do we hope that placing cars on a blockchain will allow free interaction on a transparent peer to peer network, we also hope that in the future we may be able to place several services on the same blockchain. This system gives us the possibility to add leasing and even sales. Our vision is just one of many that can be placed on public blockchains. By decentralizing industries, it allows more control over property and commerce, which overall helps build a more stable economy for the majority.

## References
https://www.zipcar.com/springsurprise?utm_campaign=marchpromotion_0319&utm_medium=cpc&utm_
source=google&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIpMHq6K-S4QIVSJ7ACh0f7wbJEAAYASAAEgIcbfD_BwE
https://www.car2go.com/US/en/join/?cid=c2g_ppc_us_den_cpc_performance_google_brand-tcepsorp_m
ainpage_none_none_none_none_none_none_none&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIxLaZlLGS4QIVENvA
Ch2RUw73EAAYASAAEgICU_D_BwE#174763
https://www.bcg.com/publications/2016/automotive-whats-ahead-car-sharing-new-mobility-its-impact-ve
Hicle-sales.aspx
https://www.ridesharingdriver.com/rent-car-on-turo-is-it-worth-it/
https://www.cryptokitties.co/
https://www.maecenas.co
https://www.maecenas.co/Maecenas-WhitePaper.pdf
https://medium.com/maecenas/how-is-maecenas-making-the-art-market-more-accessible-35196230536f




